Hello again you glorious God.
People in this video we're going to put life where life previously did not exist were going to add lives
to robots.
Here's what I'm thinking.
Robots are a kind of character we need to remember that because they're going to inherit a lot of things
so when we start adding lives to robots a lot of the work can be done in character and player can you
know get the same information or characters are going to have limited lives.
I'm going to make this simple for myself and say that robots and players all have the same amount of
light but we don't necessarily have to do that because I've made that decision.
I know that the life count can just go in the character script and then I don't have to put it in robots
and players.
But if you wanted them to be different you would have to split that between the robot and player scripts.
I also want to make sure that a character hit by food is hurt if that food was fired for a different
character type.
In other words if either player fire food at the wall and bounces back and hits me I won't take damage.
More importantly the robot at the back of the road who fires at me and accidentally hits another robot
won't damage that robot.
That's key.
That means I'm going to need something called a character type.
So let's get started with the.
Actually before we get started this is looking a bit too gloomy for me so I know I certainly get started
but instead let's go into the template level just right here and it's directional light.
I'm actually just going to make this a little bit brighter.
How about one point five.
See how that looks on a save that and go back it's my level.
That's looking a little sunnier.
I'm happy with that.
So now let's get started with the simple stuff.
If I'm going to put most of these changes in a character script I'm a start and character script I make
a new variable and it can be called lives.
And what do we start with three.
I'm not going to make this an export very well.
The reason why is character dodgy is not access directly at any point.
Right we never see any room scene so there's nothing I can click on to see any inspector.
So what variable would be a complete waste of time.
Admittedly the only time I'm wasting is explaining it.
But that's why I'm not adding it as an export variable.
It won't actually export.
Okay so we now have lives.
Now if you remember in any of my scripts folder and get my robot script as well.
We put our hearts function in here it is player and another one in Robot.
I actually don't need to do that.
I'm going to delete both of these.
And actually if we run the game right now it won't crash because enough reject our script.
We're checking does the thing I'm hitting have this method.
If it doesn't that's right nothing will happen but I want all characters to be able to be hurt so they're
going to have the same method.
Going to have a function called.
And let's start with something licensable like it's minus equal 1.
Now this is the simplest it can possibly be.
I also want to put in a couple of other things.
Let's open the actual character sees and click on scenes to get the characters and click on characters.
This is our basic character and I'm put in a new node is going to an audio stream player 3 similar call
this hurts.
As you can call it hurt SFX because as if x is a sound effect and that's just a little clear in my head
open SFX and in here we should have something called hit hurt an I you a play that make sure this isn't
looping.
It is not looping.
Fantastic.
I guess go back into scripts and for some reason it now exists in two places at once which is very helpful.
I'm on a close one of them just to make sure that I'm not saving on place not the other.
And I want to play the sound effects are gonna go hurt.
SFX not play so right now we have a variable called lives which is just going to decrease by 1.
Every time any character is heard and we can hear that if we want to play the game.
And again nice and big screen for you can hear.
Admittedly it does nothing right it's just a variable that goes down nobody can see it and it doesn't
do anything so we can have to add a couple more things first thing to do is check lives so back into
full screen.
Give myself some room seeker see what I'm doing a alesia going to make a new function called check wives.
So let's make that rate here.
I like a function check and lives.
And what does this do.
It's just going to check right so if full lives is zero.
Die now.
There is a possible edge case in theory if two pieces of food hit a character at exactly the same time
we would actually go past zero not his zero.
Honestly the odds of that happening are so small.
It's pretty much impossible.
But it is theoretically possible so what I could do is just go if it's less than one.
So if you have less than one life die that way if we jump immediately negative one it'll work.
Clearly we need a dye function so for now I'm going to put dye as it's not fi die as a simple q free
again.
Now if I press play.
And I'm very careful.
It grabs grab ammunition.
I get it if I hit the robot's enough time scope's without getting hit by self I might actually not make
it.
Yeah.
OK.
So what happened here is I died.
I as the player died and there is nothing to have left so I Q freed.
It's that I've got the camera on the player sort of like you freed.
There's no camera scene a storming.
So that's working.
However friendly fire is still on now at the moment the projectile is said to ignore myself so I can't
shoot myself.
But the robots can shoot each other which is a little tricky to actually make work but it can happen.
I'm going to stay in the middle here and try and avoid their food.
There it goes.
So in your way of making sure that doesn't happen.
So what I want to do is edit the bullet so let's get out of distraction free mode although I don't need
this bit and it's go back into the scenes and into ammo and open projectile.
And his projector script.
I want a variable here.
It's going to be variable fired by.
What I'm going to do is mark the bullet with who fired it.
OK.
So save that and go into character and I can add something right here.
So bullets got fired by.
Equals.
Equals what.
I mean I could do equal self.
But that doesn't actually solve my problem because the robots are going to be different nodes and if
I have a low level in say six robots or if I were to turn this into a multiplayer game I didn't want
players to shoot each other.
That would be an issue.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to make a different kind of variable.
And in none.
So for now let's comment this out so God stops complaining and let me tell you about oenomaus enaam
stands for enumerator.
It's a specific kind of variable that has a list of valid States which I'm going to define a boolean
could be thought of as a very simple name it has to states.
True or false.
But we could make a specific in some chord.
Is this true and have yes no maybe and banana and those are the valid sets we can have.
So arms are a variable with a limited range of values.
If I set character types and I say play at an NPC a valid character types and then I write bystander
and it's not in that limited range of values.
It just won't work.
We're going to write like this in um the name of the variable and then curly brackets value one value
to and we can keep going.
So in our specific case I'm going to make character type my name so in some character type and then
in curly brackets player an NPC.
Then when I want to use it to set the character type to character type in caps dot whatever it is when
I put it right here on the table are my constants.
Because reasons um and calling it character types which I'm going to put in caps because this is a constant
We're not going to change this at runtime and then akali brackets.
I'm mean right player and NPC.
Each value is separated by a comma.
Now we have curly brackets but it's not a dictionary.
How do I know if it was a dictionary.
It would have a key.
This doesn't have a key.
OK so we have this in um but I also want a variable called character type.
This is going to be in some in lower case small case lower case because these will be changed at run
time and character types to indicate this is a plural.
So I'm going to make this as unconfusing But as readable as I can.
I want to save that and go into a robot.
Dr. Judy and right here and ready.
I'm going to go character type
eagle's character dot helps underscore types dot NPC.
And we now know what kind of character and pieces let's let's the same employer.
Now we don't currently I believe have a ready function and we've put one in right at the top.
The function underscored the ready.
And you can set character type
equals character types got player.
And if I've done this right I think I have we should be fine how on evidence right.
I press play and it actually runs that throwing up an error.
Great.
So now I'm back to my character script and I'm giving you this bullet fired by.
So uncomment that bullet fired by calls character type.
And double checking my projectile that I've actually got the find by value in there.
Awesome.
OK.
So far so good.
But if I look at hurt fired by isn't actually passed from the projectile.
So I wanted to come in as an argument fired why.
So let's go back to projectile and bring it through.
Save that.
So now hurt is taking this argument fired by it which means we now know who threw that piece of food
that hit me which brings me to the challenge.
I would like you to disable friendly fire change character dodgy so that characters can't be hurt by
food fired from the same character type for pause a video.
Give that a shot.
And when you come back I'll show you my solution.
Mark Mack.
Okay.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm sure to put an IF condition in his I'm alert take all these press tab which
don't move one by one.
And now at my death in here.
So if character type.
Does not equal fired by.
I've also realized that fired by is a little disingenuous here.
I want to change the name of the event as it comes in just to make it more readable hurt by now this
will work fine because remember the way that Python like language is work it doesn't actually matter
what this value is called in any other script or in any other function.
It only matters what we're calling it here.
So now robots can't hurt each other.
Now this is going to be a little bit hard to tell right.
It's very hard to see the robot firing at the best time.
So what I'm to do is I will remove this bullet ad collision exception itself.
So one thing to do is I'm a check can the player hurt themself.
So I mean here.
Fire some food
and the food is being is colliding with the players so it's not actually leaving but the player isn't
taking damage.
So I can uncomment this line so that the projectile will actually leave this collision volume.
And I think this is a great place to stop this video in this video we've looked at making and using
enough variables or even arms with given life to robots and we've disabled friendly fire.
We're getting close to a fully functional again.
Excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.